---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "cml2_node Data Source - terraform-provider-cml2"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  A node data source.  Both, the node id and the lab_id must be provided to retrieve the node data from the controller.
---

# cml2_node (Data Source)

A node data source.  Both, the node `id` and the `lab_id` must be provided to retrieve the `node` data from the controller.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# get a node by ID, lab_id is required!
data "cml2_node" "r1_by_id" {
  id     = "a604ca39-4a81-4743-b888-ca7b8a571b8e"
  lab_id = "a6c124ca-1268-4de1-8bb0-6bb01e7764af"
}

# the node data is in the node attribute
output "result" {
  value = data.cml2_node.r1_by_id.node
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `id` (String) Node ID to identify the node
- `lab_id` (String) Lab ID to identify the lab that contains the node

### Read-Only

- `node` (Attributes) node data (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--node))

<a id="nestedatt--node"></a>
### Nested Schema for `node`

Read-Only:

- `boot_disk_size` (Number) Size of boot disk volume, in GB. Can be changed until the node is started once. Will require a replace in that case.
- `compute_id` (String) ID of a compute this node is on, a UUID4.
- `configuration` (String) Node configuration. Can be changed until the node is started once. Will require a replace in that case.
- `configurations` (List of Object) List of node configurations. Can be changed until the node is started once. Will require a replace in that case. Note that this requires the `named_configs` provider setting and also at least CML 2.7.0. Using `configuration` and `configurations` is mutually exclusive! (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--node--configurations))
- `cpu_limit` (Number) CPU limit in %, 20-100. Can be changed until the node is started once. Will require a replace in that case.
- `cpus` (Number) Number of CPUs. Can be changed until the node is started once. Will require a replace in that case.
- `data_volume` (Number) Size of data volume, in GB. Can be changed until the node is started once. Will require a replace in that case.
- `hide_links` (Boolean) If true, links are not shown in the topology. This is a visual cue and does not influence any simulation function.
- `id` (String) Node ID (UUID).
- `imagedefinition` (String) Image definition, must match the node type. Can be changed until the node is started once. Will require a replace in that case.
- `interfaces` (Attributes List) List of interfaces on the node. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--node--interfaces))
- `lab_id` (String) Lab ID containing the node (UUID).
- `label` (String) Node label.
- `nodedefinition` (String) Node definition / type. This can only be set at create time.
- `ram` (Number) Amount of RAM, megabytes. Can be changed until the node is started once. Will require a replace in that case.
- `serial_devices` (List of Object) List of serial devices (consoles). (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--node--serial_devices))
- `state` (String) Node state (`DEFINED_ON_CORE`, `STOPPED`, `STARTED`, `BOOTED`).
- `tags` (Set of String) Set of tags of the node.
- `vnc_key` (String) VNC key of console, a UUID4.
- `x` (Number) X coordinate on the topology canvas.
- `y` (Number) Y coordinate on the topology canvas.

<a id="nestedatt--node--configurations"></a>
### Nested Schema for `node.configurations`

Read-Only:

- `content` (String)
- `name` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--node--interfaces"></a>
### Nested Schema for `node.interfaces`

Read-Only:

- `id` (String) Interface ID (UUID).
- `ip4` (List of String) IPv4 address list.
- `ip6` (List of String) IPv6 address list.
- `is_connected` (Boolean) Is the interface connected to a link?
- `label` (String) Interface label.
- `mac_address` (String) MAC address.
- `state` (String) interface state (`UP` or `DOWN`).


<a id="nestedatt--node--serial_devices"></a>
### Nested Schema for `node.serial_devices`

Read-Only:

- `console_key` (String)
- `device_number` (Number)
