---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "cml2_node Resource - terraform-provider-cml2"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  A node resource represents a CML node. At create time, the lab ID, a node definition and a label must be provided.  Other attributes are optional.  Note that some attributes can't be changed after the node state has changed to STARTED (see the lifecyle resource) once. Changing attributes will then require a replace.  Node configurations are "day zero" configurations. Replacing a configuration typically requires a node replacement if the node has been started.  No Configurations can be provided for unmanaged switches. External connectors require the connector label (like "NAT"), not the device name (like "virbr0"). The available connectors can be retrieved via the external connector data source.
---

# cml2_node (Resource)

A node resource represents a CML node. At create time, the lab ID, a node definition and a label must be provided.  Other attributes are optional.  Note that some attributes can't be changed after the node state has changed to `STARTED` (see the `lifecyle` resource) once. Changing attributes will then require a replace.  Node configurations are "day zero" configurations. Replacing a configuration typically requires a node replacement if the node has been started.  No Configurations can be provided for unmanaged switches. External connectors require the connector label (like "NAT"), not the device name (like "virbr0"). The available connectors can be retrieved via the external connector data source.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `lab_id` (String) Lab ID containing the node (UUID).
- `label` (String) Node label.
- `nodedefinition` (String) Node definition / type. This can only be set at create time.

### Optional

- `boot_disk_size` (Number) Size of boot disk volume, in GB. Can be changed until the node is started once. Will require a replace in that case.
- `configuration` (String) Node configuration. Can be changed until the node is started once. Will require a replace in that case.
- `configurations` (List of Object) List of node configurations. Can be changed until the node is started once. Will require a replace in that case. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--configurations))
- `cpu_limit` (Number) CPU limit in %, 20-100. Can be changed until the node is started once. Will require a replace in that case.
- `cpus` (Number) Number of CPUs. Can be changed until the node is started once. Will require a replace in that case.
- `data_volume` (Number) Size of data volume, in GB. Can be changed until the node is started once. Will require a replace in that case.
- `hide_links` (Boolean) If true, links are not shown in the topology. This is a visual cue and does not influence any simulation function.
- `imagedefinition` (String) Image definition, must match the node type. Can be changed until the node is started once. Will require a replace in that case.
- `ram` (Number) Amount of RAM, megabytes. Can be changed until the node is started once. Will require a replace in that case.
- `tags` (Set of String) Set of tags of the node.
- `x` (Number) X coordinate on the topology canvas.
- `y` (Number) Y coordinate on the topology canvas.

### Read-Only

- `compute_id` (String) ID of a compute this node is on, a UUID4.
- `id` (String) Node ID (UUID).
- `interfaces` (Attributes List) List of interfaces on the node. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--interfaces))
- `serial_devices` (List of Object) List of serial devices (consoles). (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--serial_devices))
- `state` (String) Node state (`DEFINED_ON_CORE`, `STOPPED`, `STARTED`, `BOOTED`).
- `vnc_key` (String) VNC key of console, a UUID4.

<a id="nestedatt--configurations"></a>
### Nested Schema for `configurations`

Optional:

- `content` (String)
- `name` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--interfaces"></a>
### Nested Schema for `interfaces`

Read-Only:

- `id` (String) Interface ID (UUID).
- `ip4` (List of String) IPv4 address list.
- `ip6` (List of String) IPv6 address list.
- `is_connected` (Boolean) Is the interface connected to a link?
- `label` (String) Interface label.
- `mac_address` (String) MAC address.
- `state` (String) interface state (`UP` or `DOWN`).


<a id="nestedatt--serial_devices"></a>
### Nested Schema for `serial_devices`

Read-Only:

- `console_key` (String)
- `device_number` (Number)
